RHIDP-6502 Modularize Overriding Core Backend Service Configuration (#1073)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/dynamic-plugins/proc-overriding-core-backend-services.adoc

[id="overriding-core-backend-services_{context}"]
= Overriding Core Backend Service Configuration

The {product} ({product-very-short}) backend platform consists of a number of core services that are well encapsulated.
The {product-very-short} backend installs these default core services statically during initialization.

Customize a core service by installing it as a `BackendFeature` by using the dynamic plugin functionality.

.Procedure

> . Configure {product-short} to allow a core service override, by setting the corresponding core service ID environment variable set to `true` in the {product-short} `{my-app-config-file}` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure {product-short} to allow a core service override, by setting the corresponding core service ID environment variable to `true` in the {product-short} `{my-app-config-file}` configuration file.
```

[id="overriding-core-backend-services_{context}"]
= Overriding Core Backend Service Configuration

The {product} ({product-very-short}) backend platform consists of a number of core services that are well encapsulated.
The {product-very-short} backend installs these default core services statically during initialization.

> Customize a core service by installing it as a `BackendFeature` by using dynamic plugin functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customize a core service by installing it as a `BackendFeature` by using the dynamic plugin functionality.
```

+
.Environment variables and core service IDs
[cols="50%,50%",frame="all",options="header"]
|===
|Variable
|Overrides the related service

|`ENABLE_CORE_AUTH_OVERRIDE`
|`core.auth`

| `ENABLE_CORE_CACHE_OVERRIDE`
| `core.cache`

| `ENABLE_CORE_ROOTCONFIG_OVERRIDE`
| `core.rootConfig`

| `ENABLE_CORE_DATABASE_OVERRIDE`
| `core.database`

| `ENABLE_CORE_DISCOVERY_OVERRIDE`
| `core.discovery`

| `ENABLE_CORE_HTTPAUTH_OVERRIDE`
| `core.httpAuth`

| `ENABLE_CORE_HTTPROUTER_OVERRIDE`
| `core.httpRouter`

| `ENABLE_CORE_LIFECYCLE_OVERRIDE`
| `core.lifecycle`

| `ENABLE_CORE_LOGGER_OVERRIDE`
| `core.logger`

| `ENABLE_CORE_PERMISSIONS_OVERRIDE`
| `core.permissions`

| `ENABLE_CORE_ROOTHEALTH_OVERRIDE`
| `core.rootHealth`

| `ENABLE_CORE_ROOTHTTPROUTER_OVERRIDE`
| `core.rootHttpRouter`

| `ENABLE_CORE_ROOTLIFECYCLE_OVERRIDE`
| `core.rootLifecycle`

| `ENABLE_CORE_SCHEDULER_OVERRIDE`
| `core.scheduler`

| `ENABLE_CORE_USERINFO_OVERRIDE`
| `core.userInfo`

| `ENABLE_CORE_URLREADER_OVERRIDE`
| `core.urlReader`

| `ENABLE_EVENTS_SERVICE_OVERRIDE`
| `events.service`
|===

> . Install your custom core service as a `BackendFeature`.
> +
> For example,
> adding a middleware function to handle all incoming requests can be done
> by installing a custom `configure` function for the root `HTTP` router backend service
> which allows access to the underlying Express application.
> +
> .Example of a `BackendFeature` middleware function to handle incoming `HTTP` requests

Reviewer 2: Instead of including a block of conceptual info between steps, consider reformatting this as a NOTE admonition or moving it to the short description (conceptual info) section of this module. 

Then you can reformat the step to resemble something like this: 

```suggestion
. Install your custom core service as a `BackendFeature` as shown in the following example: 

.Example of a `BackendFeature` middleware function to handle incoming `HTTP` requests
```

[source,javascript]
----
// Create the BackendFeature
export const customRootHttpServerFactory: BackendFeature =
  rootHttpRouterServiceFactory({
    configure: ({ app, routes, middleware, logger }) => {
      logger.info(
        'Using custom root HttpRouterServiceFactory configure function',
      );
      app.use(middleware.helmet());
      app.use(middleware.cors());
      app.use(middleware.compression());
      app.use(middleware.logging());
      // Add a the custom middleware function before all
      // of the route handlers
      app.use(addTestHeaderMiddleware({ logger }));
      app.use(routes);
      app.use(middleware.notFound());
      app.use(middleware.error());
    },
  });

// Export the BackendFeature as the default entrypoint
export default customRootHttpServerFactory;
----
+

> In the above example, as the `BackendFeature` overrides the default implementation of the HTTP router service, you must set the `ENABLE_CORE_ROOTHTTPROUTER_OVERRIDE` environment variable to `true` so that the {product-short} does not install the default implementation automatically.

Reviewer 2: One content reuse principle and industry best practice is to avoid "pointing language", such as _above, below, next to_.
